Egypt has warned against Israel's plan
to Target Rafa gaza's southern city is
along Egypt's border and satellite
photos are revealing how Cairo is now
building more checkpoints in November
construction Crews began working on a
raised strip of land 200 meters from the
fence which divides Egypt from the Gaza
Strip that land barrier has now grown to
14 kilm in length the Egyptians are also
building a new concrete wall along the
old border wall Israel's V to the south
of Gaza is Raising tension with Egypt
the two countries signed a formal peace
treaty in 1979 based on What's called
the Camp David Accords it lays out a
complicated set of agreements about land
and borders importantly it limits the
presence of Egypt's military in the
Sinai Peninsula a separate agreement was
signed in 2005 after Israeli soldiers
and settlers withdrew from the Gaza
Strip and as the Philadelphia cord it
covered how the Rafa border Crossing was
to be run as well as how Egypt could
deploy guards along the border but
Israel is now talking about relocating
huge numbers of Palestinians away from
Rafa Egypt has reportedly warned that
any attempt to move people across the
border could lead to the termination of
the treaty and the other agreements
between the two countries M jazer Maran
bashara is here in the studio my wonder
if the situation in Rafa worsens does
Israel Israel seriously think it is
still possible to be able to push Garin
across the border considering what we're
seeing by way of Egypt's reinforcements
on that border it seems like it you know
it seems like it um but but basically
the the nany government or Netanyahu
himself has been preaching for a good
while now is that every time you tell me
I can't do something I do it and nothing
happens this is something like what
Trump used to say you know um I
recognize Jerusalem and you say
something will happen nothing happens I
I recognize the Goen Heights as Israeli
territory nothing happens Nao says you
warned me not to invade by land I did
nothing happened you know the world some
criticized some didn't mostly those who
I need meaning Western Powers have been
so hypocritical have been so appeasing
to the Israeli government so basically
netanyahu's appetite has grown with more
killing more expansion more war crimes
because he keeps doing it with impunity
and now he thinks now that he's coming
to the tip of the southern part of Gaza
the Egyptians are warning the Americans
are
concerned the French are worried and
he's probably laughing hahaa you know
yeah I've heard that before why do I
care what you keep saying because you
actually never walk your talk yeah there
appear to be a lot of nervous hang hand
hand ringing moments particularly from
Emanuel macron who has raised deep
concerns about what all of this means I
mean if you could put this into a
historical context for us what would it
mean what does it mean for us now to be
talking about potentially the collapse
of the Camp David ACC courts I think for
the time being this is a warning this is
not a real threat that is going to be
actionable anytime soon among uh among
the among the other rewards for the Camp
David of Courts
Egypt has gotten tens of billions of
dollars from the United States and it
continues to get aid from the United
States it continues to be also dependent
on the United States for various helps
so Egypt has been a bit of an asset for
the United States it's dependent on the
United States and I don't I personally
don't foresee Israel walking away from
the Camp David courts but even if it
does that doesn't mean that we're going
to go back to the state of war between
Egypt and Israel certainly not under CCE
certainly under not this regime that's
basically been even profiting from the
War uh in Gaza with with all these you
know corruption on the borders you know
5,000 to 10,000 per individual to leave
Gaza and all of that so I think for the
time being what the Egyptian regime
insists on is that he's been helpful
he's been quiet as genoside was
unraveling in plain sight in Gaza so he
just doesn't want any future resolution
of the Palestinian issue to be
resolved at the expense of the Egyptian
security that's what he's saying he's
basically begging the Israelis just
don't push the Palestinians my way
they're not my problem they're your
problem right and he's actually helping
out with the United States Saudi Arabia
and Jordan and the palan authority
they're all coming together to try to
help Netanyahu imagine after Netanyahu
carries all his war crimes now the Arabs
and the Americans want to help him out
deal with the day
after when Netanyahu and we've obviously
heard him quite a lot today speaking on
two US networks um and also in recent
days addressing members of his own
government when he talks about quote
total victory in Gaza who is he speaking
to both to his public opinion and to
those detractors who basically warning
him that you are far off yeah if you
remember just a couple of days ago as he
was saying uh to his own uh you know
crowd his own media he was saying uh
We've destroyed two-thirds of hamas's
forces the next day American
intelligence told Congress that he only
destroyed at best one-third of Hamas
forces he was saying that we're going to
continue with the war until we free the
captives the next day the Biden
Administration came out and said that's
just humbug it's not going to happen the
only way to free the cap is through
diplomacy war is going to kill them
right he went on and said we're going to
maintain security over Gaza for the
foreseeable future as well of course the
West Bank and everything west of the
Jordan River the Obama Administration
said no no no no so this been one
humiliation after another of the Biden
Administration on the part of Netanyahu
government what do we make of Rafa as an
entire strategy
because how Netanyahu plays this could
have massive long-term implications on
what happens next Hamas have said if
this assault this ground invasion of
assault happens there will be no captive
exchange end to negotiations how
seriously is Netanyahu taking that does
it bother him oh I think he's I would
think he's probably happy about it you
know when someone has a certain
megalomania uh and certain u worldview
in his according to him in his book
BB he's very hyper realistic and he only
thinks in terms of power he doesn't
think in terms of values and he thinks
the the the value of few uh Israelis
nothing compared with Israel's National
Security or the value of Israel national
security and he believes he is the
guardian to Israel national security not
the occupation not the genocide not you
know of all of that now he thinks that
he's defending Israel's expansion into
the historic Palestine and if 100 or so
captives are going to be in the way we
let them be killed because that will
liberate
him for for from the pressures of the
Biden Administration from the pressures
of the day after and from the pressures
of the public opinion or segments of the
public Union at home in order for him to
do whatever he wants to do in Gaza
including the ethnic cleansing we just
talked about and including the increas
of settlements that we just talked about
in the West Bank and maybe tomorrow in
Gaza already much of his own fascist
fanatic government is talking about
restling Gaza Believe It or Not M many
thanks as always M Bashar